The Grammy Award for Best Rock Album is an award presented at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards, to recording artists for quality albums in the rock music genre. Honors in several categories are presented at the ceremony annually by The Recording Academy of the United States to "honor artistic achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position".

The award for Best Rock Album was first presented to the band the Rolling Stones in 1995, and the name of the category has remained unchanged since then. According to the category description guide for the 52nd Grammy Awards, the award is presented to "vocal or instrumental rock, hard rock or metal albums containing at least 51% playing time of newly recorded material". 
The award goes to the artist, producer and engineer/mixer, provided they were responsible for more than 50 percent of playing time on the album. The lead performing artist is the only one who receives an official nomination. Producers and/or engineers/mixers who are responsible for less than 50 percent, as well as the mastering engineer, can apply for a Winners Certificate. Before 2001, only the performing artist received an award.
The band Foo Fighters currently holds the records for both wins and nominations in this award, with five wins and eight nominations overall. Foo Fighters are also the only three-time, four-time, and five-time winners of the award. In the 2000s, the group famously won the award twice in the span of four years, with their albums There is Nothing Left to Lose in 2001 and One by One in 2004.
Two-time winners include Sheryl Crow, Green Day, U2, Cage the Elephant, and Muse. Neil Young holds the record for most nominations without a win, with seven. To date, only three women, Sheryl Crow, Alanis Morissette and Hayley Williams of Paramore have won the award.


== Recipients ==

^[I]  Each year is linked to the article about the Grammy Awards held that year.


== Artists with multiple wins ==


== Artists with multiple nominations ==


