The following is a list of Super Bowl broadcasters, encompassing all national American television and radio networks, as well as sports announcers who have covered the first four AFL-NFL World Championship Games and subsequent championship games of the National Football League. It excludes announcers who may have appeared on local radio broadcasts produced by participating teams' flagship stations.
Super Bowl I stands out as the only Super Bowl simultaneously broadcast in the U.S. by two different networks. At the time, NBC held the rights to nationally televise AFL games, while CBS had the rights for NFL games. Both networks covered the game using their own announcers, but NBC could only use the CBS feed instead of producing its own. Starting with Super Bowl II, NBC televised even years, and CBS odd years. This rotation continued until the 1970 AFL–NFL merger, when NBC gained the rights to televise AFC games, and CBS to broadcast NFC games. Despite ABC broadcasting Monday Night Football in 1970, it joined the Super Bowl rotation only from Super Bowl XIX, in January 1985. ABC, CBS, and NBC then continued to rotate the Super Bowl until 1994, when Fox replaced CBS as the NFC broadcaster. CBS then assumed NBC's place in the rotation after CBS replaced NBC as the AFC broadcaster in 1998. Due to new contracts signed in 2006, NBC took over Sunday Night Football from ESPN, took ABC's place in the Super Bowl rotation, and Monday Night Football moved from ABC to ESPN. It continued until new contracts took effect in 2024, allowing not only ABC to return and initiate a four-network rotation but also ESPN to air their first two Super Bowls.
The four-year rotation starting with Super Bowl LVIII also allows each broadcaster to offer simulcasts or alternative broadcasts on its sister networks and platforms. CBS's sister network Nickelodeon aired  an alternate children-oriented telecast of Super Bowl LVIII. ABC's rights include ESPN simulcasts and alternative broadcasts on other ESPN networks.
The NFL broke the traditional broadcasting rotation at least twice, both times involving NBC, CBS, and Winter Olympics. NBC originally had broadcasting rights for Super Bowl XXVI, and CBS for Super Bowl XXVII. However, the NFL allowed the networks to switch the two games to provide CBS with a significant lead-in to its coverage of the 1992 Winter Olympics. Similarly, NBC was set to air Super Bowl LV and CBS Super Bowl LVI, but the networks agreed to swap the broadcasting rights. Therefore, CBS benefited from holding rights to the Super Bowl and the 2021 NCAA Final Four, while NBC paired its Super Bowl coverage with the 2022 Winter Olympics. Under the four-network rotation starting in 2024, the league awarded NBC or any network that airs the Winter Olympics the Super Bowl during Winter Olympic years.
CBS has televised the most Super Bowl games, with Super Bowl LV being its 21st, and it just completed the broadcast of its 22nd with Super Bowl LVIII in February 2024.


== Television ==


=== English language ===


==== Notes ====
^Note 1 : Super Bowl I was simulcast on both CBS (at the time the sole NFL network) and NBC (the AFL network). From Super Bowl II onward, the networks began rotating exclusive coverage of the game on an annual basis. Super Bowls I–VI were blacked out in the television markets of the host cities, due to league restrictions then in place.
^Note 2 : The 1989 television contract (which was in effect) gave CBS Super Bowl XXVI instead of Super Bowl XXVII, which was in their rotation. The NFL swapped the CBS and NBC years in an effort to give CBS enough lead-in programming for the upcoming 1992 Winter Olympics two weeks later.
^Note 3 : The television contract for 1990–1993 had each network having one Super Bowl telecast of the first three games as part of the package. The fourth Super Bowl (XXVIII) was up for a separate sealed bid. NBC won the bid, and since they were last in the rotation for Super Bowl coverage in the regular contract, ended up with two straight Super Bowls. CBS is the only other network to televise two Super Bowls (I and II) in a row. It is also of note that Super Bowls XXVII and XXVIII are the first (and to date, only) back-to-back Super Bowls to feature the same two teams (Dallas Cowboys and Buffalo Bills).
^Note 4 : Michael Strahan was a last-minute substitute for the Vince Lombardi Trophy presentation ceremony, as Terry Bradshaw (who has normally covered the Lombardi Trophy presentation ceremonies for Super Bowls airing on Fox) left the New Jersey/New York area the day before Super Bowl XLVIII to fly home due to the death of his father.
^Note 5 : Under the 2013 television contract, Super Bowl LV was originally assigned to NBC, while Super Bowl LVI was originally assigned to CBS. In March 2019, CBS agreed to trade Super Bowl LVI to NBC in exchange for Super Bowl LV so that the former would not have to compete against the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing.
^Note 6 : CBS's sister network Nickelodeon aired an alternate children-oriented telecast of Super Bowl LVIII. This marked the first time that an alternative broadcast of the game aired on the broadcaster's sister network.
^Note 7 : The contracts for CBS, Fox, and NBC have an opt-out clause after the 2029 season, or after Super Bowl LXIV in early 2030 (ESPN/ABC's contract's opt-out clause is instead after the 2030 season, or after Super Bowl LXV in early 2031).


===== Spanish language ===


== Radio ==


